# S03

## url
https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/blog/testing-concurrent-systems-concurrency-defects-testing-techniques-and-recommendations/

## archive url


## Source type
Blog


## Author type
Writter: Donald FireSmith
https://insights.sei.cmu.edu/authors/donald-firesmith/


## Date
june 24 2019


## Problem
- the concurrency in software and systems engineering greatly increases complexity, make it to nondeterministic behavior and various type of concurrency defect.


## Solution for problem 1
- develop test cases and testing techniques specifically designed to uncover concurrency defects in software and system.


## Solution for problem 2


## Decision Driver
- The lack of awareness and training among  dev and tester regarding concurrency-related defect and techniques.


## References 
- Tanakorn Leesatapornwongsa, Jeffrey F. Lukman, Shan Lu, and Haryadi S. Gunawi, "TaxDC: A Taxonomy of Non-Deterministic Concurrency Bugs in Datacenter Distributed Systems," Proceedings of the 21th ACM International Conference on Architectural Support for Programming Languages and Operating Systems, 2016.

- Simone Souza, Maria Brito, Rodolfo Silva, Paulo Souza, and Ed Zaluska, "Research in Concurrent Software Testing: A Systematic Review," PADTAD '11, July 17, 2011.

- Vinay Arora, Rajesh Bhatia, and Maninder Singh, "A systematic review of approaches for testing concurrent programs," Concurrency and Computation: Practice and Experience, Vol. 28: pp. 1572-1611, 2016.
- Francesco Bianchi, Allessandro Margara, and Mauro Pezzè, "A Survey of Recent Trends in Testing Concurrent Software Systems," IEEE Transactions on Software Engineering, Vol. 44, No. 8, pp. 747-783. August 2018.

- Slvana Melo, Jeffrey Carver, Paulo Souza, and Simone Souza, "Empirical research on concurrent software testing: A systematic mapping study," Information and Software Technology, 105, pp. 226-25, 2019.

## Remark
N/A

