# S01

## url
https://crystal-lang.org/reference/1.8/guides/concurrency.html

## archive url
https://cmu.to/mshru

## Source type
Guides

## Author type
Staff Writers

## Date
N/A

## Problem
1. The confusion between the terms "concurrency" and "parallelism".
2. Execution of a program for Communicating data with Event loop
3. Communicating data for Spawning a fiber is not executed.
4. Spawning a fiber and waiting for it to complete.
5. The potential loss of information or synchronization issues when using buffered channels.

## Solution for problem 1
Acknowledge The definitions of "concurrency" and "parallelism".

## Solution for problem 2
Some time-consuming operations are delegated.

## Solution for problem 3
Do a sleep: because the sleep call will schedule the main fiber to be executed in a given second, and then executes another" ready to execute" fiber.

## Solution for problem 4
The coordination is achieved using channels, which act as a communication mechanism between fibers.

## Solution for problem 5
Ensuring that the receiving fiber is ready to consume values before the sending fiber proceeds


## Decision Driver
- The definitions of "concurrency" and "parallelism" sometimes get mixed up.
- The event loop waits for that operation to finish the program.
- A fiber is not executed as soon as it is spawned.
-  fibers are spawned to perform concurrent tasks, and the main fiber waits for the spawned fibers to complete before proceeding further.for example, The main fiber invokes channel.receive and blocks until a value is received. Meanwhile, the spawned fiber executes its code and sends a signal by invoking channel.send.
- The sending fiber continues executing without blocking because there is space in the buffer, it may perform additional send operations before the receiving fiber has a chance to consume the previously sent values. 

## References 
N/A 

## Remark
- A concurrent system is like being in the kitchen cooking: you chop an onion, put it to fry, and while it's being fried you chop a tomato, but you distribute your time between those tasks.Parallelism would be to stir fry onions with one hand while with the other one you chop a tomato.
- Spawning a fiber refers to the creation and execution of a new fiber in a concurrent programming model. 



