# S05-042

## URL
https://www.javatpoint.com/concurrency-in-operating-system

## Archive url
https://shorturl.at/opwU7

## Source type 
Articles

## Author type
Staff Writers

## Date
N/A

## Problem
1. Locating the programming errors
2. Sharing Global Resources
3. Locking the channel
4. Optimal Allocation of Resources
5. Non-atomic
6. Deadlock
7. Blocking
8. Race Conditions
9. Starvation
10. It is necessary to protect multiple applications from each other.
11. It is necessary to use extra techniques to coordinate several applications.
12. Additional performance overheads and complexities in OS are needed for switching between applications.

## Solution for problem 6
Software and hardware locks are commonly used to arbitrate shared resources and implement process synchronization in parallel computing, distributed systems, and multiprocessing.

## Solution for problem 9
Requires developing dependable strategies for coordinating their execution, data interchange, memory allocation, and execution schedule to decrease response time and maximize throughput.

## Decision Driver
- It's difficult to spot a programming error because reports are usually repeatable due to the varying states of shared components each time the code is executed.
- Sharing global resources is difficult. If two processes utilize a global variable and both alter the variable's value, the order in which the many changes are executed is critical.
- It could be inefficient for the OS to lock the resource and prevent other processes from using it.
- It is challenging for the OS to handle resource allocation properly.
- Interrupted or affected by other concurrent processes or threads. 
- N/A
- Occurs when one group member waits for another member, including itself, to send a message and release a lock.
A blocked process is waiting for some event, like the availability of a resource or completing an I/O operation.
- Occurs when the output of a software application is determined by the timing or sequencing of other uncontrollable events, also happen in multithreaded software.
- Errors in scheduling or mutual exclusion algorithm and resource leaks.

## References 
N/A

## Remark
N/A

